>> Kyle Simpson: It is useful to
understand this processing model of a tag
function, however, because there are more
interesting things that you can do.
And I have in some occasions
written my own tag functions
when there wasn't some standard one
out in a library that I might prefer.
So, for example, this tag function,
it's definitely a bit more complex and
how it does, what it does is not all
that important, but what it is for
is basically as a replacement for
my console.log statements.
Because when I do a console.log
of a regular value like a number,
I just wanted to drop in that number,
if I do a console.log of like an object I
don't want it to print object object,
which is not helpful.
And if I do a console, log of, say an
error that I've gotten from a try catch,
I don't want to just see the error string.
I'd like to see the whole
error stack if it's available.
So I did this a bunch of times over and
over and then one day I just thought,
why don't I make myself a tag function?
That automatically can
pre-format an object as JSON or
an error as a statutory string.
And then instead of typing cancelled log
everywhere then I can just use this tag
function on my cancel strings.
So this is what it looks like in
action if I have that line four,
I have logger there, and you notice
that I don't have to say console.log and
then pass on the string,
logger does the console logging.
And I pass in the string and
if I have a value like object,
they're on the end, you'll notice that it
went ahead in JSON's string format for me.
I didn't have to do any extra work.
It detected that it was an object and
it could be JSON.stringify().
Same thing down here.
If I catch an error, I can have it
automatically format in my console that
error with the error stack and
error message and all that stuff.
So that's an example of doing something
a little bit more sophisticated
with a tag function to solve
in this case a debugging task.
But you can imagine lots of
different things you might use.
As a mater of fact, people have really
gone way further with these tag functions.
Because it turns out a tag function
doesn’t even have to return a string.
You might think of,
I'm making a string literal.
But when I call it
an interpolated literal,
it's because it doesnt even
have to return a string.
It could, in fact,
return something else entirely.
So what are some examples of that?
Well, let's take regular expressions for
example.
Regular expressions are quite
famously in JavaScript.
They very hard to reformat,
not the least of which is because this
regular expression literal requires you to
put everything on one line with no
white space, not comments, no anything.
So you have these regular expressions that
can grow to like hundreds of characters
long, and nobody can read tha.
Many other languages
have long had support for
multiline regular expressions where you
can split them out and indent them and
put various white space and comments and
all sorts of readability affordance.
Well, some very enterprising folks though,
well,
why don't we just make
a regex tag function?
Which then allows you, inside of your
literal, which can span multiple lines and
have white space, just write out a regular
expression with all this white space and
commenting, and it will parse your string
and turn it into a real regular expression
and not return you a string for but
return you the actual regular expression.
So now all of a sudden we have nice, clean
multiline readable regular expressions.
It's almost as if inside of a literal you
can write your own entire language and
people have done that.
People have made entire
programming languages as
the interpreter is a tag function.
And inside of your template string,
inside of your literal,
you can have whatever syntax you want.
JSX, another great example.
JSX in the React ecosystem,
it's HTML-like stuff embedded
directly in JavaScript which is it's fine,
people like that.
And use it quite frequently but
it requires a compiler cuz
it's not standard JavaScript.
Well, then someone decided and actually
there's multiple implementations now.
They wrote a JSX tag function.
So inside of your literal, you can write
out your JSX multiline everywhere,
dropping values, whatever you wanna do.
But now it's completely standard
JavaScript, no compilation needed.
And what the JSX tag function
returns to you is not a string,
it returns to the actual dom object
just exactly like you'd expect in JSX.
So this is a tremendously powerful, it's
almost like a mini language with inside of
JavaScript, tremendously powerful and
I'm very excited about the future.
I've already got some libraries,
where I've started using template tags and
these different sorts of ways to
push the boundaries even further.
It's a great extension point for
writing more declarative JavaScript.